CHAPTER X.

——

THREE HUNDRED FIGHTING REGIMENTS.

IT is not claimed that these are the Three Hundred Fighting Regiments of the Army ; but,

that they are three hundred regiments which evidently did considerable ﬁghting. There were,
undoubtedly, others which did equally good or, perhaps, better ﬁghting, and their gallant ser-
vices will be fully recognized by the writers who are conversant with their history. But, for
lack of other information, this chapter deals only with those which sustained the heaviest
losses in battle. It includes every regiment in the Union Armies which lost over 130 in
killed and died of wounds during the war, together with a few whose losses were somewhat
smaller, but whose percentage of killed entitles them to a place in the list. It may be sug-
gested that large casualty lists are not necessarily indicative of the ﬁghting qualities of a
regiment ; that on many occasions regiments have rendered valuable service and achieved a
brilliant success with but slight loss. Granted, as regards some particular action or instance;
but, in the long run active service brings its many scars ; where the musketry was the hot-
test, the dead lay thickest ; and there is no better way to ﬁnd the ﬁghting regiments than to
follow up the bloody trail which marked their brave advance.

The losses in these three hundred regiments have been compiled from their muster-out-
rolls, and counted name by name ; the total of the deaths is, in each case, correct. At times,
it was difﬁcult to decide as to the company to which a death should be tallied : for men were
often transferred from one company to another, and, where companies were consolidated, a
dead man’s name often appeared in two or more companies in the same regiment.

Then, again, in dividing the deaths among the different battles it was sometimes difﬁcult
to ascertain the action in which the wound was received, as the date of death was often
given, instead of the date when the wound was received. In such cases the death was tallied
to the last battle previous to the man’s death, that is, the last battle in which his regiment
was engaged. In some instances the rolls bear the names of men marked simply as “ killed
in action ;” these are recorded here as killed at Place Unknown. But these inaccuracies are
few and slight, leaving the main result substantially correct as to each regiment.

In some regiments the rolls were in such condition, owing to the consolidation of com-
panies and accessions of new companies bearing the same letters as the old ones, or to the
reorganization consequent upon the reénlistment of the regiment, that the regular form of
tabulation was not practicable, and, so, after stating the total number of deaths ——-omitting
company losses—the list of battles is given, accompanied by the ofﬁcial casualty- lists of
killed, wounded, and missing, instead of the number of “ killed and died of wounds.” Where
the casualties are stated thus, in “ killed, wounded, and missing,” the wounded includes the
mortally wounded. This must be home in mind to properly understand the nature of the loss.

Where it could be done with accuracy, the number of killed and mortally wounded in
each action is given in the regimental tabulations of these three hundred regiments ; and this
is done without confusing it with an additional statement of wounded and missing. The

(122)

