Tunas Human-:1) Flon'rixc RI-zoixu-LVI-s. 123

number of wounded is not always an exact, deﬁnite statement, owing to the slightly wounded
which are counted in some regiments and not in others. ]t is sometimes difﬁcult to draw the
line between wounds, slight injuries. and lack of injury. The missing is astill more indeﬁnite
quantity, including, as it does, the captured. the missing, the stragglers, and. very often, many
of the killed and wounded. But there is nothing indeﬁnite about the status of the dead
soldier, and, so, for purpose of comparison, it is better that the losses of the various regiments
be stated in “ killed or died of wounds,” and in that only.

“Then the total of the killed and died of wounds in any regiment is known. it is very easy
to arrive at the number of its wounded, for the proportion, in the aggregate, is a deﬁnite and
well known one, as has been previously shown.* True, this proportion will not always hold
good for a regiment in the instance of some one battle; but, in all the battles of a regiment it
will be found correct, the variations correcting themselves in the aggregate.

In these three hundred regiments, the title of each is accompanied by the name of its
brigade, division, and corps. Of course, many regiments served in more than one brigade.
and each brigade had several commanders. Still, in each case, the brigade mentioned will
assist largely in identifying the regiment, or recalling to the hasty reader the campaigns in
which it served. Lack of space debars the tedious details necessary to trace properly the
changing organizations to which mest regiments belonged.

The loss by disease in Confederate prisons is stated in many instances, but, at the same
time, it is included in the column of “loss by disease, accidents, &c.”

In stating the total enrollments, care has been taken to subtract transferred men who
were shifted from one company to another in the same regiment. Deductions are also made
for men transferred to a regiment after the \ 'ar had closed, many regiments having received
large accessions from disbanded organizations just before their own muster-out. ln com-
paring these enrollments with the muster-out-rolls, this fact must receive attention; other-
wise, there would be an apparent discrepancy.

The bands are also omitted in the enrollments as stated here, as all regimental bands
were ordered discontinued. and were mustered out during the summer of 186:3. After that.
no hands were enlisted, or paid as such, except brigade bands ; and, if a regiment had a band,
it was formed of enlisted men, or company musicians, detailed for that purpose.

In addition to the battles mentioned,—in which a regiment lost men killed or mortally
wounded,—the engagements at which the regiments was “ present " are also given. I u some
of the latter. losses were often sustained in wounded or missing men, but, as none of these
wounded or missing are recorded among those who died of wounds, the battle does not
appear in the tabulated list. In giving these additional battles at which a regiment was
“Present. also," intentional omission is made of a certain class of mino- affairs which are
often used by regimental historians to unduly swell their list of battles. but which, if given
here, would only confuse or mislead a disinteiested reader. .

In the cavalry, however, these mino' actions were so frequent, and resulted in so many
casualties in wounded and captured men. that they form an important feature in the history
of each mounted regiment. But the brief sketches given in the succeeding pages afford no
room for the long and honorable list of additional actions in which each -a 'alry regiment
participated,— actions r -plete with meritorious details, although they did not result in any
loss of life. Still, the reader should hear these facts in mind to rightly appreciate the services
rendered by the mounted regiments.

In most of the three hundred regiments mentioned in this chapter the figures opposite
the list of battles show only the number who were killed or who died of wounds. The mun-
ber of the killed, wounded, and missing. for the more important losses of each regiment, will

be found in the notes appended in each case.

 

‘b'eo Page 2|.

